---
title:Castles and Bus Trips and Falls, Oh My!
date:Mar 27, 2011
author:Cheezmeister
tags:Croatia
---

This weekend was one of the few unplanned weekends in our 11-week tenure in Croatia. So a few of us decided to take a trip up to the capital, Zagreb; and by a few, I mean four. Many students held back, citing money as the limiting factor, which is a shame, because the bus tickets there and back, at about 200 kuna apiece, were by far the biggest expenditure. We saved a ton of money by cramming into a room in a Zagreb hostel, which was a good call. I *love* hostels. The rooms are cheap, you meet awesome people, the staff are almost always friendly. This one offered hot tea in the morning, which is a **Big Deal** while travelling. Even though we got there at an ungodly hour the morning before the night we were booked, a kind albeit tired fellow let us in ("pay the lady here later") so we could grab a few hours of sleep. This is important, because the bus ride to Zagreb from Dubrovnik was a 12 hour red-eye marathon of bumps, curves, and ever manner imagineable of shifting centers of gravity, making it impossible to nap for more than a few minutes at a time. 

Awesome Croatian hostel dude, if you're reading this, *puno hvala*, and sorry for waking you.

There was a backpacker from Canada sharing our room, about our age, perhaps younger. He was understandably out cold when we stumbled in, but we chatted a bit in the morning and the following night (at which point we were actually *supposed* to be in the room). It was kind of unexpected to meet someone who spoke English without a noticeable accent. Turns out he'd been bouncing around Europe since January, nothing planned except to wander and see what's out there. He was also rockin' a jar of Nutella, earning additional cred from us (Nutella has been a mild addiction of the CS crowd abroad since we arrived here). 

While in Zagreb, we checked out a few parts of the city, including the farmer's market, a huge, ostentatious cathedral, and a funky roof mural. Neglecting to grab some fruit at the former was a mistake, as I got quite an orange craving the next day. The cathedral made me sad, not only because the chandeliers alone were bigger than my room and probably cost more than my net worth as a person, but because it was more of a tourist attraction than a place of worship. One person was ostensibly trying to pray, but I can't imagine he was able to accomplish much over the din of screaming kids and flash photography. Just one lonely example of misguided leaders [rendering unto God what is Caesar's](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Render_unto_Caesar). 

The funky roof mural was funky. 

We found the city itself surprisingly unassuming and rather bland compared to Dubrovnik. After checking out Zagreb proper, and munching on some tasty *burek sir*, we headed out to explore the remains of some castle on top of a hill. I forget what it's called, but in the unlikely event anyone's reading this and simply must know, [ping me]($root/contact.html) and I'll find out. This was my favorite part of the trip, mainly because the crumbly walls made for some cool photos and were excellent for climbing on. I like to climb things.

My inner monkey satisfied, we wandered around the area for a bite to eat. I, wearing my favorite tie-dye hooded sweatshirt (I only own one), bumped into a Zagreb local who asked where he could get one, and wisely assumed that as an American in tie-dye, I *obviously* must have had some American weed that I might want to trade for Croatian weed. Not the case, I'm afraid. After offering to sell us some psilocybin, he relented, showed us a swanky restaurant that was a bit out of our price range, and continued on his way.

We wound up grabbing pizza at a quaint little restaurant next to the river. The pizza in Croatia has been surprisingly tasty, considering it's a primarily American cuisine. It cost us altogether under 100 kuna. *That's about $20 for dinner for four*. Not bad.

Tummies full, we headed back to the hostel, making friends with a few stray kittens along the way, slept relatively well and woke up in time to catch the bus toward Plitvicka National Park, about 2 hours south of Zagreb. Not 20 meters in, we were greeted by an enormous, majestic, archetypically scenic waterfall. Parks in Croatia don't screw around. We wandered around the park for the remainder of the day, taking in the falls, a cave or two, and crystal-clear water. (Swimming wasn't allowed, but I dunked my toes in; that doesn't count, right?) I won't waste time describing it--there are photos for that--but suffice it to say that though I'm not a big nature guy, I thoroughly enjoyed the hike, including a glorious pretzel-and-Nutella lunch break. 

The place we stayed Saturday night was similarly great bang for the buck, at 64 Euros for the group of four. Even better, the owner personally picked us up from Plitvice in his green minivan and dropped us at the bus station in the morning for the trip back to Dubrovnik.

It was a good weekend.

